Now I will give you an exception
to what I said 40 seconds ago.
I said that it has no relationship with
PWAs, but actually there is one exception,
iPhones.
Safari and iOS does not support web push
notifications unless you install a PWA.
If you install a PWA, that PWA,
the installed version can request
web push notification permission.
But not Safari, the browser,
because it's Apple, I don't know.
Actually, it took a while to get there.
It was one of the most
requested features for Apple.
Hey, we want push notifications for PWAs.
Well, the answer was, okay,
you got it, but not in Safari.
So you have to push your websites
into installing the PWA, so
then you can use web push, okay?
Well, the service worker
has a scope defined.
What's a scope?
The scope is an origin, something that
we have already defined, and a path.
So it can be your whole domain, or
it can be a folder in your domain.
That means that that
middleware that we installed,
that network proxy can be responsible for
your whole domain, or only for a folder.
And then you can have other service
workers managing other folders, okay?
That's the idea.
The idea is that when you
define a service worker,
when you register a service worker,
then it will manage all
the pages within the browser and
within the installed app from that scope.
So if you have a PWA installed,
when you open that PWA,
the service worker will say, that's mine.
It's part of my scope,
it's mine, I'll take it.
That's kind of the idea.
Any page in the scope will install
a service worker, and after installed,
it can serve all the files
requested from the scope.
And after installed, it can serve all
the files requested from the scope.
Only one service worker
is allowed per scope.
If you try to install another one,
you are removing the previous one.
There is a whole process there.
For more advanced situations,
you can get there.
And WebKit, it's adding another
complexity to this, partition management.
I'm not sure if you have heard about this
partition management before on WebKit,
because of security, privacy reasons.
Partitions are only when you have iframes.
So if you don't have iframes,
a partition is a domain.
It's the same, okay, it's the same.
But if you have iframes,
each combination of domain plus domain
of the iframe is called a partition.
So what's the idea with that?
There is a whole blog post
if you wanna get with that,
service workers partition WebKit.
Workers at Your Service, okay, yeah,
that's the title for service worker.
Well, here they explain how Safari
implemented service workers.
And they talk here about partitions,
here somewhere.
So it has to do with,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Increase
this a little bit,
it has to do with iframe.
So if you have webkit.org,
example.com, an iframe of that,
that is taken as a partition.
So then it will be one instance of
the service worker will be applied there.
And if you have another page without the
iframe, it will be a different partition,
a different service worker.
It has to do with privacy, okay,
but it doesn't matter for now.
>> Student: Are there any security
threats related to service workers or
does the scope thing help with that?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's
a good question.
Actually, when the service
workers appeared,
there was a big fight in the community.
Twitter was on fire, actually.
And on fire,
not just because of developers, but
because of browser developers.
The service worker was an API
pushed by the Chrome team.
The Safari team was against it.
And there was really hard tweets.
What we know in public,
I don't know what happened in private, but
actually Apple didn't want that.
And the main reason was security, okay?
Well, actually, because,
of course, it sounds too powerful.
Because you have a lot of thousands
of service workers installed that you
don't know, and they can wake up,
they can execute, go in the background.
But actually,
the spec already tried to, of course,
solve all the security concerns.
That's why they cannot be
executed by themselves.
The user needs to open a new document for
that domain so that service worker can
appear, or the push notification to
be received, and things like that.
To be honest, in the probably seven,
eight years of service workers,
we haven't seen big security problems or
things that have appeared.
So it seems like they are pretty secure,
and
we couldn't find a way to break
the service workers, actually.
There is a discussion of background
execution, battery usage.
We can discuss that part.
But in terms of security,
I don't think there is any security risk.
But all right, there is always risk, but
nothing has been found yet,
and I think that.
But I understand, I feel the pain,
the feeling, okay?
I have the feeling also that,
hey, this is too powerful.
How is that we can install servers
on users' computers without their
knowledge, okay?
Well, it's a server that
responds only to your origin.
So you shouldn't, you cannot read
things that happens on other tabs,
on other websites and so on.